[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Let's do you
setTime out as an observable.
I'm just gonna create my handle and call.
Actually, I'm just going to take
this code right here, paste it in.
However, instead of just calling some
arbitrary handler, inside of here,
we're just going to call observer on next.
Now, I'm not really going to get, I'm just
basically going to give it undefined.
We don't care about the value, right?
SetTimeout doesn't really emit a value.
So I'm just gonna call next to send
a message essentially that the timeout has
elapsed to the observable.
And now, because setTimeout's never
gonna fire again after this right.
SetTimeout fires only once
after a certain elapse time, so
I also wanna say you know what?
There's not gonna be any more callbacks
and so I tell the observer, onCompleted.
>> Jafar Husain: So that's what
observable is I'm not quite done but
it's pretty close.
So now if I take this time out,
>> Jafar Husain: I'm
actually gonna create a
>> Jafar Husain: Timeout
function which when given the time,
will return an observable.
>> Jafar Husain: Which
fires after that time.
>> Jafar Husain: Now I can just call
timeout, five seconds and now what I've
done is I created an observable that
will fire after five seconds once you for
each over it.
But notice just this code all I've done
is create an object with a function.
Hasn't done a darn thing.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Do we have an observer in
scope?
Like where are we getting the value for
our observer variable?
>> Jafar Husain: We're not.
I think sorry going to expand
this out a little bit.
We're not because observer is that for
each is just a function
waiting to be called.
It's when we call forEach that we will
actually pass in that observer object.
Does that makes sense?
So time out is just going to create
us this observable right here.
Notice we haven't written,
we haven't run the thing, right?
Just created an object with a function
on it, haven't done anything.
But as soon as I do this,
>> Jafar Husain: Now,
I'm traversing the observable.
I've called forEach.
And now we can see that why nothing
happens until we call forEach.
It's only when the forEach function gets
called that we're actually going to call
a set time out on the browser.
Does that makes sense?
Now, we're missing a piece.
forEach always returns
a subscription object.
Remember that, that subscription object?
Because we need a way for the consumer of
the data to say I don't want that anymore.
I don't want the result of timeout.
We need a way for
them to unsubscribe so to speak, right?
And a subscription object,
much like an observable,
is just an object with a single
function on it called dispose.
Anybody wanna tell me how
to complete this function?
So this is how you unsubscribe
from a setTimeout, right?
So when somebody calls dispose
on the subscription object,
>> Jafar Husain: I want to make sure to
never call, ever call, the onNext,
onError, onCompleted functions ever again.
How do I make sure that never happens?
>> Speaker 3: onNext
empty.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I could effectively set the onNext
method to an empty function.
Right?
But that would work, right?
But now I'm actually changing
somebody else's object, remember?
Somebody passed this object to me.
I don't want to muck with
somebody else's object.
Now, I told you earlier,
there's an API that will cause
a timeout to stop basically.
You can cancel a timeout using
this clear timeout API right here.
So all I have to do is when somebody
calls subscription.dispose, call this.
That's how an observable
cleans up after itself.
It's the observable's responsibility,
such that when you say, look,
I don't want the data anymore,
for it to clean up after itself.
So now, by doing clear Timeout handle,
what we've actually done is,
the browser has now freed this handler.
Because that's what happens
when you call clear timeout.
Because you're basically saying
to the browser, don't call me.
So then the browser naturally frees your
call back cause why would it hold on your
callback if it's never gonna call you?
So we've cleaned up after ourselves.
This is what's different about creating
a promise and creating observable.
There's this extra piece here at
the end which is you have to describe
how if somebody decides they
want to get that data any more,
how to clean up after yourself.
It's just a slight change to this
to make this work for dominance.
So let's actually write from event.
>> Jafar Husain: So,
once again we see the same pattern first,
as soon as forEach is called,
we wanna subscribe up to the event.
We wanna cause whatever side
effect is gonna happen,
that is gonna lead to us eventually
getting push that value.
So, in this case I'm gonna go
dom.addEventListener, eventName
and I'm going to pass this
handler directly to it.
Still you know just a slightly
different shape of an API but
basically doing the same thing.
This time, however, setTimeout doesn't
really give you an interesting value which
is sort of calls you and there's nothing
interesting past to the function.
However, here, events obviously
do give you an interesting value.
So I want to thread along the event object
that you get in addEventListener
into the stream.
So the observable just becomes a stream of
all of the event objects that your handler
would have been called with
had you used addEventListener.
And now, because an event doesn't
end after the first item, right,
there could be many,
many more of such items.
I'm not going to call on completed because
the stream isn't completed, right.
The event could call you
a hundred more times,
there could be a hundred more mouse moves,
right.
So I'm not going to say it's
complete because it isn't.
So, now we're actually adopting
a Dom event into an observable.
But what's the missing piece?
>> Speaker 4: removeEventListener.
>> Jafar Husain: Right, we have to clean
up after ourselves.
So cleaning up after ourselves with
a setTimeout means calling clearTimeout.
But the cleaning are up after
ourselves with an event means calling
removeEventListener.
>> Jafar Husain: Oops,
now I have to give my handler a name.
This is why dealing with events is so
annoying as far as I'm concerned.
It's a classic example of why it's so
annoying.
You have to hold on to the handler,
this is the sort of stuff that we don't
have to do, thanks to takeUntil, right?
Instead of having to hold
on to some handler and
then later on calling removeEventListener,
I'm actually just going to use takeUntil
to declaratively describe when I
want an observable stream to end.
Turns out to be much less code.
So now that I've given this thing a name,
>> Jafar Husain: Now I'm
gonna pass that same handler.
And that's how we adapt a dom
event into an observable.
So that's what's going on under the hood.
Hopefully you guys have got a good enough
sense of now how an observable works.
Just an object with a function
waiting to be called, right.
And then at that point, it will hook up to
an event and return a subscription which,
when disposed of,
will do whatever it needs to,
to make sure that you're never called
it again and clean up after itself.
So let's go back to our exercises.
>> Speaker 5: They're asking if you
could throw a new gist for them.
>> Jafar Husain: That's a good question.
>> Speaker 5: Just to save
the example.
>> Speaker 5: And
in your set time out example,
someone was saying wouldn't set interval
be more appropriate?
>> Jafar Husain: Well appropriate,
yes in the sense that a set interval
is just like a setTimeout except
it actually calls your call back
every two hundred milliseconds.
But both are equally appropriate.
So the only difference between
the setTimeout example we saw in the set
interval example is that we
wouldn't call on completed.
Because the set interval calls you again
and again and again every two seconds.
A setTimeout just calls
you after two seconds.
But the answer is that they're
both totally appropriate to
convert into an observable.
But the message here is take every single
asynchronous API in your system and
adapt it into an observable.
Because then you can combine together
these asynchronous data sources
seamlessly.
So, yeah,
adapt the setTimeout into an observable.
Have it call you once and
then call you on completed.
And yes,
adapt set interval into an observable and
have it just keep calling
you on next forever, right?
So if I take that same example,
let me just see if I can throw in a gist
here.
>> Jafar Husain: So
now if you take that and
simply run it, it won't work, and
the reason is that the observable is
actually a constructor with a prototype.
So it has map and filter and
all those other chains on it.
I'm just showing you the actual, what
the object really looks like structurally.
Now if you want to make this really work
with Rx, it just has a helper function for
creating observables
called Observable.create.
And instead of creating
an object with a forEach method,
you just directly pass in the only method
on an observable, which is forEach, so
it's kind of a handy
little helper function.
And this will actually work in Rx.
And the other thing that
the Observable.create does, so
instead of forcing you to create
an object with only one method,
it's just a helper function you can
pass in just the definition of forEach.
The same thing happens, instead of forcing
you to create a subscription object
with only one method that's a function,
it allows you to just directly return
the Dispose function, and then it wraps
it inside of a subscription object.
So those you out there trying it,
this will actually work.
Yeah, question?
>> Speaker 5: They're saying that they get
that onCompleted would never
be called on a dom event.
But when would onError get called?
Is it always up to the specific API?
>> Jafar Husain: Well for a dom event, for
your typical dom event,
never because a mouse move if never
going to tell you error, right?
But there are some events that look like
dom events, like on an XMLHttpRequest,
for example, right?
Where although the XMLHttpRequest
doesn't have a specific API for
giving you an error, well,
my point here is that different
push data sources may have different
arbitrary ways of communicating errors.
And if you wanna adapt that data source,
that push data source into an observable,
you need to just sort of check for
whatever their particular way
of communicating an error is.
And then if you get that, call onError.
So that's your job,
to take whatever the specific semantics
are of whatever that push data source are,
and convert it into those three well
defined semantics on an observable.
So if I was in an HTML request,
for example,
I believe I would check to see
if I'm trying to recall, but
I believe that I would check to see if
the state, if the return value was a 500.
And so if I got to 500 on
the the response, I would call onError and
then passing that response.
That might be one potential way of mapping
an xmlhttp request into an observable
data source.
Does that makes sense?.
So the problem we have today is we
have all these different APIs and
they all have different, just like you saw
with setTimeout and addEventListener for
no particularly good reason,
they all have different APIs for
doing basically the same thing.
And what observable can do is it can
give you a single common API for
all these data sources.
So it's well worth your time to take
whatever weird API you happen to be
looking at, adapt it into an observable so
that you can begin to use the operators,
those powerful operators, the map, filter,
take and till to glue them all together.
So, that's the first step, take whatever
API you have, adapt it into an observable.